# garbage_classification_cvpr_2024
Code for the paper we're going to publish on CVPR 2024.

Abstract:

Recycling is a pressing challenge for all countries nowadays, it reduces waste but manual
sorting of tons of garbage daily can be challenging. Due to this, alternate ways of garbage sorting that
leverage novel technology are being studied. Artificial Intelligence can help in this task by sorting domestic
and industrial garbage in an automated manner. Hence, our research introduces Garbage-IT, a large
multimodal dataset of Garbage Images along with a small Text description that claims to provide a
more generalized dataset for the garbage classification problem and improve garbage sorting, and
create a huge impact if used practically. Mostly of the current systems that use Deep Learning (DL) to
do automated garbage sorting assumes all the needed information is contained in images of garbage. The
system presented in this paper incorporates Natural Language Processing (NLP) by leveraging a language
model which consumes textual information used to describe a piece of garbage. By combining those two
sources of information, it is possible to obtain better results when doing classification using image or text
only information. Garbage-IT provides benchmarks of various state-of-the-art models for applications
like classification and image captioning (mention results).This works shows that the accuracy/f1-score
in the dataset presented increases by X% when combining text and image.


Much research has been done in image
classification for the garbage classification problem with
a very specific and limited dataset. But we propose the
classification based on both images and text.
In order to show the power of multimodality we com-
pared the performance of the following models:

• Deep Learning Classification model trained on im-
ages

• Deep Learning Classification model trained on
textDeep Learning Classification model trained on
Images + Text (text generated from image caption-
ing)

• State-of-the-Art (SOTA) Deep Learning Classifica-
tion model trained Image + text (generated by hu-
man)

• A novel Deep Learning Classification model Images
+ Text (generated by human) which we are proposing
